- In a client server architecture there is always a risk
of a security vulnerability existing
in the communication channel between the two systems.
Because of the way TCPIP works,
these communication channels are potential hotspots
for attackers to exploit.
The most common communication channel attack
is the theft of sensitive information on the wire.
An attacker who can gain access to the network
of either the client or the server
can potentially steal the information on that channel.
Many businesses, for instance, provide free wifi,
which is left open and unencrypted.
This can become a hot bed of theft
and your development team
needs to proactively protect your customer.
Unfortunately some users may set their devices
to always trust and connect to public wifi systems,
making the ability to spoof these SSIDs an attack vector.
A spoofing attack is actually simple to prevent
through the use of proper transport layer security, or TLS,
because the attacker has to man in the middle
TLS connections to steal the data,
and your user will see browser warnings in this case.
TLS is sometimes mistakenly referred to as SSL,
or secure sockets layer.
While they both serve as a cryptographic protocol
that provides authentication and encryption between systems,
the fact is that SSL has been deprecated
and replaced by TLS.
To set up TLS connections a valid certificate is signed
by a trusted certificate authority.
The certificate must be installed on the server side.
The communication channel itself must be a secure one.
Therefore, it's always a good practice
to redirect all traffic from HTTP to HTTPS.
If you choose to only accept HTTPS connections,
you may frustrate your users.
Always remember that if your security
makes your site unusable it becomes ineffective.
It is also important that your certificates are valid,
trusted, and not expired.
Tools like open SSL make this validation easy.
In addition, you can build up processes
to manage your certificates on a regular basis.
Now when you control the actual code on the client side
of the connection,
you should always validate the certificate.
This includes not only checking
that it is a valid certificate
but that it has not expired or been revoked.
Each language and framework has tools
around not only making TLS connections
but doing the validation.
Often developers skip that validation part.
So make sure that you don't.
This extra overhead is worth it,
because if a certificate becomes compromised
you have a way of protecting the client system
from accepting a bad connection.
Which again can cause a leak of sensitive data.
Using secure communication channels wherever possible
will dramatically increase
the overall security on your systems,
as well as improve your SEO results,
since most of them weigh TLS connections heavier.